We have seen many shows like MASH and ER on TV where doctors and
nurse characters would perform triage of injuries and determine
which ones were serious and which could wait.
And really, bugs in a feature are like injuries to your code,
and when they are revealed, they too need to be triaged.
Without triage,
bug tickets can add time to your development
process and even cause invalid fixes.
Every development team should triage their bugs.
And let's look at the importance of a good triage team.
The importance of good triage.
Good triage is a tough skill to find and keep.
So don't just assign tickets as they come in to developers.
Every approved ticket should be the product of a good triage.
Have you ever looked at a ticket and said, "What does this ticket mean anyway?
" How many times have you worked on a bug that says something like,
this feature is broken?
You might think this is an exaggeration, but it really isn't too far off.
This will even start a cycle of calls and emails with
the customer clarifying the ticket.
Or worse,
a developer will fix it because he or she thinks he knows or
she knows what's implied by the ticket.
Oh, even worse.
All of this is just wasted time and energy.
On the other hand,
how many times have you wondered why some tickets are being worked
while more critical tickets are just sitting around?
How frustrating is that?
This happens frequently if tickets are not prioritized and
put in the backlog with good triage.
So an experienced team will review tickets for best practices.
Bug tickets should be written with enough information to identify the issue plus
steps to reproduce and anything else that might be useful.
The triage team will verify that the tickets have all the necessary
information or return to the originator to clean the tickets up.
This might take a phone call, certainly.
They will also apply their knowledge about the specific
feature or other existing tickets to add valuable insights
and maybe link related issues.
Next, assign severity and priority.
Tickets are often misclassified by their creator.
The triage team might determine that a ticket labeled as critical is actually
not so bad due to no workarounds or other business needs.
Or the team might find a low-priority ticket that should be
worked immediately because they know the impact.
The triage team also usually recommends whether a
ticket needs to be pulled into a sprint.
For example,
maybe a user's asking for a feature that is part of a
sprint development effort and therefore,
this ticket should be part of the sprint and not an operations bug at all.
And who should do triage?
The purpose of the triage team is to review bugs as they come in.
Ideally,
the people reviewing bugs have the power to make prioritization
decisions and are also familiar with the features.
Strong subject matter expertise helps,
along with knowledge of best practices and delivery schedules.
So a normal triage team might include the product owner,
who obviously would help with prioritization,
a QA analyst familiar with the bug ticket best practices,
and intimate with the bug queue to help identify duplicate and related tickets,
and maybe a development manager.
You know,
good to have so that the team can understand the
reasons behind prioritization issues,
and he would know or she would know the resources
that may or may not be available.
This might be the best group in general,
but you can add or subtract members as needed.
And when do we triage?
Many factors influence when triage becomes necessary.
Some teams do triage on a regular basis.
And I would suggest daily, first thing in the morning,
then maybe right after lunch if the load is heavy,
and always be ready for an ad-hoc triage stand-up.
As you can see, triage can take place on the fly or on a regular basis,
whatever the situation and team deems is right.
But I would always have regularly planned triages and let
the ad hoc just fill in as you need.
So remember, try to be as quick and efficient as you can,
but the better the triage,
the easier it'll be to complete the ticket by the development
team and provide good customer service.
With quality triaging,
your developers and QA teams will really appreciate complete bug tickets,
and product owners will have a deeper understanding about
the health of their systems as well.
On the next slide we'll talk about why tracking
with tickets is just so important.
Why tracking your work with tickets is important.
And just so you know, I like tracking things, so, full disclosure.
Also, email does not equal a ticket or tracking system,
so don't use it in that way ever.
OK, here are some additional benefits of having a tracking system.
Everything is centralized in one place.
I think that ticket tracking systems' major benefit to me is
that it functions as a system of record.
As a project progresses,
all the key information ends up being documented in the ticket
tracking system so that at any time later,
years even for instance, you'll have all the information you need.
Next, provides built-in tracking and reporting metrics.
You can track things easier, for example.
You can run a report on every ticket a teammate has worked on in the past month.
Mean time to repair, how many open tickets,
how long does it take to solve a ticket?
All sorts of metrics can come out of the ticketing system,
which will provide better information for you to manage your operations team.
Helps prioritize.
It also allows you to more easily prioritize the workflow as well.
Adds transparency.
A ticket tracking system is better for determining which departments,
teams,
or businesses are receiving the most support requests so you can
allocate your support resources efficiently.
Fosters collaboration.
Multiple people can work on the same issue and in doing so
can keep their progress in the same place.
And ensures continuity.
Simply put,
if you need to delegate tasks to others and track those tasks closely,
ticket tracking is superior to email as I mentioned earlier.
Ticket tracking systems are also a good fit for people who work in a
position where they manage others or handle support requests.
Now, how might we organize our team of resources?
How will people be the most effective at working on operational issues? Let's check that out in the next section.